---
layout: page
title: "Third Workshop on Formal Methods for Autonomous Systems"
acronym : "FMAS 2021"
date : 2021-03-10
permalink: /FMAS2021/
image: /images/logos/FMAS-Logo.png
draft: false
---




FMAS 2021 is a two-day workshop that brings together researchers working on a range of techniques for the formal verification of autonomous systems, to present recent work in the area, discuss key challenges, and stimulate collaboration between autonomous systems and formal methods researchers.

FMAS 2021 will be an **online** event, due to the continuing national and university COVID-19 restrictions.

## Scope

Autonomous Systems present unique challenges for formal methods. They are often embodied in robotic systems that can interact with the real world, and they make independent decisions. Amongst other categories, they can be viewed as safety-critical, cyber-physical, hybrid, and real-time systems.

Key challenges for applying formal methods to autonomous systems include:
* the system's dynamic deployment environment;
* verifying the system's decision making capabilities -- including planning, ethical, and reconfiguration choices; and
* using formal methods results as evidence given to certification or regulatory organisations.

FMAS welcomes submissions that use formal methods to specify, model, or verify autonomous systems; in whole or in part. We are especially interested in work using Integrated Formal Methods, where multiple (formal or non-formal) methods are combined.

Autonomous systems are often embedded in robotic or cyber-physical systems, and they share many features (and verification challenges) with automated systems. FMAS welcomes submissions with applications to:
* automated systems,
* semi-autonomous systems,
* fully-autonomous systems, or
* systems that have the potential to be autonomous in the future.

### Topics

Topics of interest include (but are not limited to):

* Novel or Integrated Formal Methods that are suited to Autonomous or Automated Systems,
* Runtime Verification or other formal approaches to deal with the _reality gap_ (the gap between models/simulations and the real world),
* Verification against safety assurance arguments or standards documents,
* Case Studies that identify challenges when applying formal methods to autonomous systems,
* Experience Reports that provide guidance for tackling challenges with formal methods or tools, or
* Discussions of the future directions of the field.

## Submission and Publication

There are two categories of submission:

* **Short papers -- 6 pages (excluding references)**, suitable for overviews of an approach or work-in-progress. Work from PhD students is particularly welcome;
* **Long papers -- 15 pages (excluding references)**, suitable for descriptions of completed studies, new approaches, or new directions.



FMAS has a single track that accepts both categories of submission. Submissions must be prepared using the [EPTCS LaTeX style](http://style.eptcs.org/).

Each submission will receive at least three, single-blind reviews. If a paper is accepted, at least one of the authors must attend the workshop to present their work. We intend that accepted papers will be published via [EPTCS](http://www.eptcs.org/).

## Important Dates

* **Submission: {{site.data.fmas2021.dates.submission}} ([AOE](https://www.timeanddate.com/time/zones/aoe))**
* Notification: {{site.data.fmas2021.dates.notification}}
* Final Version due: {{site.data.fmas2021.dates.final_version}}
* Workshop: {{site.data.fmas2021.dates.workshop}}


## Programme Information  

### Proceedings

The proceedings for FMAS 2021 are available at: [https://arxiv.org/html/2110.11527](https://arxiv.org/html/2110.11527). We would like to thank our editor and the rest of the team at EPTCS for their help with publishing these proceedings.

Videos of the invited talks are available on the [FME youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC5rZj0AyBudca0YRgEAX-Ow).


### Invited Talks

<style> .talk-title {font-style: italic; } </style>
<style> .talk-details{ list-style-type: none; } </style>

{% if site.data.fmas2021.show_talks == true %}

{% for talk in site.data.fmas2021.invited_talks %}
<article class="" markdown="1">

<a href="{{talk.link}}" rel="external">{{talk.name}} <span class="fas fa-external-link-alt"></span></a>
{{talk.bio}}
  <ul class="talk-details">
  <li> <b>Title</b> : <span class="talk-title"> {{talk.title}} </span> </li>
  <li> <b>Abstract</b>: {{talk.abstract}} </li>
  <li> <b>Video</b>: <a href= "{{talk.video}}"> {{talk.video}}</a> </li>
  </ul>
</article>
{% endfor %}

{%else %}
To Be Announced
{%endif%}

### Accepted Papers

<style> .paper-title {font-style: italic; } </style>
<style> .paper-details{ list-style-type: none; } </style>

{% if site.data.fmas2021.show_papers == true %}

{% assign paper_list = site.data.fmas2021.papers | sort: 'paper_number'  %}
{% for paper in paper_list  %}
<article >
<span class="paper-title">
{% if paper.titleLink != null %}
  <a href="{{paper.titleLink}}" rel="external">{{paper.title}} <span class="fas fa-external-link-alt"></span></a>
{% else%}
 {{paper.title}}
{% endif%}
</span>
<ul class="paper-details">
<li> <b>Authors:</b> {{paper.authors}} </li>
<li> <b>Abstract:</b> {{paper.abstract}}</li>
<li> <b>Slides:</b> <a href= "{{paper.slides}}"> Link </a></li>
</ul>
</article>

{% endfor %}

{%else %}
To Be Announced

{%endif%}


## Programme Committee

{% if site.data.fmas2021.show_pc == true %}
{% assign pc_list = site.data.fmas2021.pc | sort: 'last_name'  %}
<ul>
{% for person in pc_list %}
<li><a href="{{person.link}}" rel="external"> {{person.first_name}} {{person.last_name}} <span class="fas fa-external-link-alt"></span></a> {{person.affiliation}} </li>

{% endfor %}
</ul>
{% else%}
TBA
{% endif %}


## Organisers 

<div class="w3-row">
<div  markdown="1" class="w3-container w3-cell  w3-half w3-mobile"  >
{% include ext_link.html text="Dr Marie Farrell" link="https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7708-3877" %}, Maynooth University, Ireland
</div>


<div  class="w3-container w3-cell  w3-half w3-mobile" >
{% include ext_link.html text="Dr Matt Luckcuck" link="https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6444-9312" %}, Maynooth University, Ireland
</div>

</div>


